Hi everyone! I'm delighted to walk you through a recent work where you investigate how much references are important information translation evaluation. Specifically we'll look into how many references we need and what quality. In order to start the effect of references, we first need to get some basics down. In machine translation we had the source sentences, we passed them to the system and get the translations. In order to find out if the system on the left is better than the system on the right, we can ask humans. There are many annotation protocols but conceptually the translators read the source, the translation and assign number. Alas, humans are not perfect, make mistakes and are inconsistent. One day you might read the left translation better but maybe not another day. Also they are super difficult to use at scale. In research we usually need to avoid multiple model versions on millions of sentences and that's simply intractable. For that reason we create automatic metrics. There are functions or models that also read the translation and produce a number on some scale. Importantly the metrics are designed such that they correlate with the human judgment in ideal circumstances. The machine translation community developed many metrics. The most infamous one is the blind metric which compares end-grounds between the translation and reference translation which we consider to be perfect. In fact most metrics are reference-based which begs the question how sensitive they are to the references and if you can improve the evaluation by having better references. For an example I consider this translation from German if we stand up on whole which is the phrase that means to not understand anything. The difference translation is however incorrect and it's too literal. The translation that we want to evaluate is also too literal and incorrect. The final translation score is minus 0.986. If instead we try to avoid a better translation that has the correct meaning of not understanding anything we get a worse score. It is exactly something that we don't want to happen because we want better translations to have higher scores. The culprit here is the reference translation which is bad to begin with. Now why investigate the effective preferences? I hope that I convince you the differences possibly matter in a segment level evaluation. Now imagine that you're a shared task organizer and gave a bunch of teams sentences to translate. The teams do their best and give you back the translations and you don't have the budget to imitate all the translations so you want to use some automatic metrics and for that you need to get reference translations. Maybe you are in contact with multiple vendors that can provide the human translations. Different vendors have different costs and maybe the first one is super cheap but also has mistakes in the translations while the last one is super expensive but also provides impeccable translation quality. Now which one should you choose to get your translation? That is the focus of our research. We are slowly getting through results but the last stop is the data setup that we have. For each sort of sentence we have multiple translations of varying quality and in addition each reference is further post edited by a worker ranging from students to professional translators. At the same time we have all the system translations from the WMT shared tasks and their human evaluations. The task that we try to optimize is reference-based metric performance which we measure by correlation with the human scores. And of course there is more to do with the data which is why we made them easy accessible. We have four human references for each translation with R1 being the lowest quality and R4 being from the translatologists so super high quality. In this table we compute the metric scores with the different references and compute the correlations with the human judgments. And indeed there is a trend that the better the reference quality the higher the correlations. However the reference R4 is special and doesn't lead to the best metric correlation. One of the reasons is that very high quality translations have something called a translation shift. To illustrate when translating a book what can we just translate each sentence well but needs to also modify the text so that it flows well in the target language. With translation shifts however the translation deviates from the original which causes discrepancies in evaluation. Still the effect of reference translation quality is an important one that applies to all metrics. For Komei using diverse reference is almost as bad as not having a reference at all in the quality estimation model. Another problem is that while the references might be of high quality the system translation evaluation is done by skilled but still crowd workers. In this plot are 11 annotators. Four are professional translators, three are translators students and four are layman crowd workers. Their task is to write the whole set of translations by a system. Clearly based on their expertise level the annotators produce much different distributions of scores. For example the layman crowd workers are much more positive than professional translators who scrutinize the outputs more. This is one of the reasons why the super human references aren't the best for evaluation because the system evaluation is done by translators and not academic translologists. Recall that we have four references of various qualities but in addition each reference is fairly post edited by either a layman student or a professional. Assuming that post editing does not present translation quality this should lead to an improvement in segment level correlations and indeed when we look at the difference between the standard difference and its post edited version in all but one case the post edited version leads to slightly better correlations. Okay so we know that the reference plot impacts the evaluation performance. Now let's focus on quantity or references for a bit. In this case for each translation we compare it to possible multiple references and take either the average or maximum. We start with the best single reference R3 and add it to the second best one R4. No surprisingly this improves the correlation. We can take this further we can compare to all the references which pushes the correlation even higher. In fact we have many human references per single source translation and we can investigate this from a different perspective. If you take random set say or three references what's the correlation going to be? Now what if you have seven references or more? In all cases and for all metrics adding more references always helps. However this affects battles after having five references. This might be because we use that all the translation diversity and minor differences in translation do not affect the evaluation that much. We can see that string matching metrics such as blare or cart level f-score benefit from this much more than neural metrics such as comay. Now we know that both quality and quantity matter but how much flexibility do we have in mixing them. When we have multiple references they very likely come from different translators and also likely from different translation houses. Previously we explored if we can have multiple references sources per single sample but to test the flexibility limits we now test if some source sentences can have the reference from one vendor and the rest from a different vendor. In this example the first 30% are from expensive and high quality vendor while the rest is from cheaper one. And this is important especially at scale because translating large number of sentences is usually not possible with a single vendor. Now there is a reason why this shouldn't work. This is because if you change your reference they are also changing the absolute score of the metrics. So in our example the first 30% of segments would have a higher average than the rest which introduces a bias. And let's see what happens when we avoid some sentences against the one reference and the rest against another one. This graph seems complicated but does just this with paralyzed mixing. In the first segment we are mixing between the first reference and the second one and interestingly this mixing works almost linearly between the endpoints. Now we know that reference quality and quantity matters and that we have quite a bit of freedom but how do we optimize all this on a specific budget. So let's suppose that as an optimization problem we have some certain budget and we get an offer from a few vendors. Some of the vendors are cheap but we know produced love the translations. In contrast some vendors are hard quality but very pricey. We assume that we have some estimates on these properties perhaps from our previous instructions. Now who should we ask to provide us with references and should we ask for multiple references or focus on high quality ones only. We can visualize this in a table. Each column is a source sentence or document or whichever unit we operate on. Each row is a particular reference vendor. We start with all sorts of segments being assigned to the cheapest vendor for which we assume we have the budget. Then as long as we have the budget we either promote the segment to be translated only by a high quality vendor or by the lower quality and higher quality one at the same time. Now we just repeat this until we reach our budget. Note that in each step we are improving the quality of the evaluation as per our previous findings. But they also cost more. For the promote action we move from cheaper lower quality to more expensive and higher quality vendor. For the ad action we request an additional reference which costs more but improves the evaluation. And this means that this algorithm is going to terminate. Whether we prefer to have more references or fewer high quality ones is determined by a hyper parameter lambda. Now let's look at the results. On the x-axis is our budget from small to high. On the y-axis is the lambda hyper parameter. As expected with the higher budget the algorithm selects more differences which happens also when we request them with the higher lambda. What's more interesting are the correlations of the final reference setups found by the algorithm. This is coded with the colors in the tables. For both of these metrics the best way to allocate the budget depends on what the budget is. If you have a smaller budget then we should optimize for quality of the samples but if you have a larger budget then it should be spent on getting multiple references per each segment. This is the very high level overview of the simplestochastic algorithm. There are some important limitations that we need to acknowledge. One of them is that this is just a single language pair and just one hundred and sixty source sentences. The reason for that is that we wanted to have multiple references and each with a second round of both edits which limited us on the scale. The main takeaway is that reference quality does matter from machine translation evaluation and that one should try to get the same level of reference translation quality as the non-existent human revelators that we wish to skip over. In our case we had commercial translators as the revelators which is the reason why the superhuman translators vary the best references. For the number of references the more the better because we can always just average a segment level scores. Finally we find that the references from multiple vendors can be mixed together and optimized the best use of the budget. For the future it's worth looking into the effect reference quality and quantity on the system level evaluation and on larger scale. We couldn't do that here because of the low number of sentences and systems but that's still an important application. I'll also be interested in some ways in which to commentify the reference quality because currently we just use the dance chemical relation as an indicator but that's just a very indirect measure. Currently in a full of research I'm looking into ways in which to select a subset of the evaluation suit. If you're interested in any of these research this structure dataset is available on hugging face. This concludes our journey into the quality and quantity of references from machine translation evaluation. Now it should be our first people to look into this and there is a lot of related work which you talk about in the paper. Thanks for watching.